# Actor-Based-Runtime-Environment-Distributed-Computing
                        An Actor-Based Runtime Environment for Heterogeneous Distributed Computing

Distributed Computing is a field in Computer Science which focuses on studying distributed systems. A distributed system typically has a set of software components located on different computing machines connected over a network. These components communicate through message passing. We are interested in studying the key properties of Distributed Computing by building a prototype of an Actor system using Scala/Akka programming language. Specifically, we demonstrate how the actor model can be used in implementing distributed computing across connected heterogeneous computing machines. To achieve this objective, we built a distributed runtime environment to support the deployment and execution of distributed actor-based applications on different computing machines. The distributed run-time environment consists of connected runtime environments, which support the execution of individual application components (actors) and managing their communication. The programmability benefits of our runtime environment are evaluated by developing two distributed applications: (1) A peer-to-peer chat application between two heterogeneous machines over a wireless network implemented using Akka; and (2) A computational-intensive application across three connected heterogeneous devices. Finally, we evaluated the performance of the developed prototype experimentally using different metrics.
